All right, how was that?
For some of you that was
probably a bit challenging.
For some of you, crushed it.
Rolled through it easily.
So in the interest of honesty and
fairness, I also did this code challenge.
I did not do it before.
I wrote it up, but I didn't solve it until
I was solving the same time you were.
Here is my solution.
So here's the general blah, blah, blah.
I don't modify this.
I created this.
So every other solution I will
live code after I've done but
this one I'm a slow typist.
So just trust me that I did it.
I didn't cheat.
I even here I left up my Google
queries because I also need help.
I don't remember these things.
I'm not perfect.
I had to look up this stuff too.
So my solution was I created a class.
And I know that it takes
an element of some sort,
it takes food data doesn't
matter on the order.
And I'm just creating those in the scope.
I created a function called render list.
Actually did this last cuz it's probably
the last thing I need to worry about.
But what I did was I knew that I
needed to create a list of items.
And I didn't want to do
that in this one function.
So I created this separate
function called createFoodItems.
Now, on this question,
was this challenging, or
was it sort of in the middle?
Sorta in the middle, challenging?
For a lot of people, and this is generally
the kind of the style of code question I
like, it's are you very, very,
very dependent on frameworks or
do you understand kinda the basics
of can I create an element,
can I create an end listener and
things like that?
That's why I like to ask this question.
Is I don't care about specific
framework knowledge or expertise.
You could be the world's
leading a react expert.
Can you create an HTML page that
renders stuff into the dom?
That's it.
And to use that I had to use create
element, which is my go to, yes,
I'm using a <div>.
Don't judge me if I use a list or
something like that a better element.
But am using <div> because it's
a code test and I'm limited on time.
I just added the image, you can use
the name doesn't really matter.
I add the class list,
I'm adding the item name of the class.
Don't know I'm gonna do with
that I just did it just in case.
And I'm returning that
element that I created.
So next thing I did was after I
created this function was I created
a document fragment.
This is if you're giving a solid code test
or answering a solved code test like this.
Create a document fragment cuz what that
does is it creates a copy of an elements.
And then I can just insert things
into that fragment piece of document.
And then once I'm done inserting,
I append that to the actual dom.
What's the advantage of
using document fragments,
instead of just appending
straight into it?
Cuz I also could have
done something like.
In the forEach I could have
said this.brute.append child.
And then I could have called this.
I hope that works.
I could have done something like that.
But why did I use a document fragment?
Anybody, anybody at all?
>> You're appending a bunch of times.
>> Yeah.
>> And
this one you're just appending once.
>> So what are the implications of that?
>> You're doing more stuff with the dom,
when you're appending, so
some sort of performances.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right.
If we're appending, that means we're
constantly updating DOM which means it's
rerendering, between performances
it's gonna be degraded.
Versus if I only append once,
it's one render and then I'm done.
That's something I look for.
I want people to understand
document fragments or
just the performance implications
of constantly rendering to the dom.
Not a magic trick.
It's just kind of good knowledge to have,
in understanding like how
does rendering work?.
And once I'm done, I append that child and
I append that document fragment in so
it's one render.
Then once I was done, and just in case,
I know there's some skeptics out there.
This is my console log, I threw a lot
of errors while I was doing this.
And I'm giving this course and
I still write errors.
I open my developer tools just to
see what errors are getting thrown.
This is real life, no one's perfect.
So the last thing I did was I ran a little
bit of trouble cuz I had to remember how
event listeners worked.
But I added an event listener to the root
and then I extracted the target.
And the target is the thing that is being
clicked on when you have an event listener
or click event listener.
And now, I said remove, which I have to
look up as well, document remove element.
Just .remove, I should probably
should have known that but
I had to look it up too.
But the reason why I
added it to the root and
not the actual child element itself,
which I also could have done,
was event delegation and
this is what event delegation looks like.
It means there's one event listener rather
than however many items I have here.
And it's good to think
in terms of that way,
because let's say I had
a list of 1,000 things.
You'd see your performance
slow dramatically down.
And of course, when I click it removes
everything from the list, one at a time.
That's an example of a code test.
And I consider it a fairly reasonable
code test for a general UI engineer.
Now if I needed a, say angular engineer,
I might ask a question in angular and
have you solve that that way, or
react or something like that.
If I'm saying I want a UI engineer, don't
really have specific framework in mind,
I'll ask a question like this sure.
Because I don't necessarily
want a language or framework or
a library specific expert.
Cuz what if we switch to,
what's a new framework that just came out.
>> Svelte.
>> Yeah, let's say we switch to Svelte
instead of React or something like that.
Then all that React knowledge,
it's worthless.
So I want a general UI engineer.
If you understand something like this,
then I know you can learn something else.
But if you only spend your entire career
coding one framework, you're probably not
gonna be as flexible in your thinking,
that's might not be what I'm looking for.
Nice job, all of you who completed it.
If it was a little challenging, don't
worry, it throws people because you get so
used to all the heavy lifting
that the libraries do for
you that going back old school
can throw you for a loop.
But once you see it, hopefully you
understand it's not too tricky.
And I didn't ask anything like create
a web worker and start multi threading or
anything like that.
Just things you can look up.
So that was a phone screen.